docs:#600two stage bootstrap (#700)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/cluster-administration/configuration.mdx

    <meta name="description" content="Cluster configuration general information."/>
</head>

> When you install Redpanda software, configuration properties are automatically set to their default values. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you install Redpanda software, configuration properties are automatically set to the default value. 
```

### Cluster properties

> Cluster properties are stored internally and automatically replicated across all nodes, which ensures that each node is in sync. Examples of cluster properties include Kafka frontend settings, authentication settings, and settings for enabling features such as Tiered Storage and rack awareness. Most Redpanda configuration properties are cluster properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cluster properties are stored internally and automatically replicated across all nodes, which ensures that each node is in sync. Examples of cluster properties include Kafka front-end settings, authentication settings, and settings for enabling features such as Tiered Storage and rack awareness. Most Redpanda configuration properties are cluster properties.
```

> [Tunable properties](../../reference/tunable-properties) are also considered cluster properties. You should not need to change these default settings for normal operation.

Reviewer: Would be helpful to know when we recommend updating any of the tunable properties. Given that one of our key differentiators is performance, it seems like this might need more context. Moving forward, one of the content gaps/areas for improvement will be to add a Performance tuning section/advanced config. Until then, though, I think there is value for the customers if we can identify areas/contexts in which tuning is something they should do.

Author: I've saved this comment for future work.

### Node properties

Node properties are usually set differently on each node; for example, the `kafka_api` listener IP address. Node properties are stored in the `redpanda.yaml` file located in the `/etc/redpanda` directory for each node.
For a full list of node properties, their descriptions, and their default values, see [Node configuration properties](../../reference/node-properties).

> For instructions on how to change node property settings, see [Configuring node properties](../../cluster-administration/node-property-configuration).

Reviewer 2: In `node-property-configuration`, section "Setting node configuration properties":

* the first paragraph mentions `node_uuid` property. There is no such property in `redpanda.yaml`. I think that one was supposed to be `node_id` originally. If replaced with `node_id`, the paragrapgh sounds about right.
* In this sentence:
> The `node_uuid` value is automatically populated in the `redpanda.yaml` file when the node is brought up and must not be changed.

if `node_id` is used instead, it is confusing to say that it's automatically populated when the node is brought up. However it's still important to mention that once specified, it must never be changed. So maybe something like this instead:

> .... you can change the value of any node configuration property, except for the unique node identifier, `node_id`. The `node_id` property is optional and may be omitted from `redpanda.yaml` altogether to have Redpanda assign it automatically. However when the `node_id` value was specified explicitly at the time of initial node setup, it must never be changed. For the same reason you cannot specify `node_id` on a node that didn't have that property from the beginning.

Reviewer 3: See this thread: we should not document this field anymore. It seems to be unused

https://redpandadata.slack.com/archives/C024H6DSU2H/p1666369437892959

Author: done

> For instructions on how to change node property settings, see [Configuring node properties](../../cluster-administration/node-property-configuration).

Author: @dlex I tidied up this whole page. Please review: https://deploy-preview-700--redpanda-documentation.netlify.app/docs/cluster-administration/configuration/

> For instructions on how to change node property settings, see [Configuring node properties](../../cluster-administration/node-property-configuration).

Reviewer 2: I still think that my proposal for the last sentence of the first paragraph makes sense, because otherwise the docs are pushing users to specify `node_id` explicitly, kind of -- @andrwng what's your opinion?

> For instructions on how to change node property settings, see [Configuring node properties](../../cluster-administration/node-property-configuration).

Reviewer 3: Could we omit actually the last two sentences of the first paragraph? I agree with @dlex that it kind of encourages people to set `node_id`, and it doesn't add new information since both sentences follow from "except for the unique node identifier: node_id"
